Preliminaries
================

## Econ B2000, MA Econometrics

## Kevin R Foster, the Colin Powell School at the City College of New York, CUNY

## Fall 2024

From the first class we’re going to zoom along! So you should get a head
start before the semester begins.

Two main things to prepare for class:

- Review basic stats with Hawkes (on their webpage)
- Figure out the basics of how to use R (“R Basics for Lecture 1” from
  class page)

Find these at “Preliminaries” from the [course
page](http://kfoster.ccny.cuny.edu/classes/fall2024/)

Why? Because soon after term begins, there is a diagnostic test on
Hawkes that reviews your stats background, so you should get working on
that. And first class begins using R so you should start learning your
way around that program. Look at HW 1 to get an idea of what you have to
do.

### Recommended to do before class begins:

- Read R Basics for Lecture 1 (available from class webpage) and the
  videos, since this is what we’ll do in the first class.
- if you have your own computer, install R and RStudio (directions in R
  Basics videos). Details also in online free textbook, [Kieran Healy,
  Data Visualization](https://socviz.co/)

### Might do before class:

particularly if you are considering data analytics as career

- Learn more basic programming in R – if you look at the first homework
  assignment, you’ll see that it requires some basic work with R. Get a
  head start. Maybe start to read [Hadley Wickham, R for Data
  Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/).

### Basic Stats

This class is meant for students who have a decent background in basic
statistics. In my experience teaching it, many students don’t know if
they have a decent background in basic stats – that’s the whole problem.
So I’m going to be giving a diagnostic test a few weeks into the
semester that you can take online. The online material also lets you
review since I know many students haven’t done stats in a while and have
to do some mental archaeology. The diagnostic test will only count for
10% of your grade but if you do poorly then I would encourage you to
drop the class and take some review classes.

Students are required to purchase access to the online Hawkes Learning
System in order to take the test. This system gives straightforward
explanations of each topic and then allows you to do lots and lots of
practice problems, which is the best way to ensure that you learn those
topics. For that, [go here](https://learn.hawkeslearning.com). Enter
your school (listed as “CUNY - The City College of New York”) and find
“Beginning Statistics”.

You should begin reviewing early. A past student noted, “That was my
biggest mistake: I got your summer email but put it off and got behind
at the beginning of the term!” Learn from other people’s mistakes and do
the practice problems before the semester begins.

I have set up the Hawkes System with recommended practice sections
(Chapters 3-11 are the essentials), although you can explore the other
topics – there are lots of stats concepts that are good to know in
general even if they’re not absolutely necessary for this semester.

You will take the diagnostic test on the Hawkes System any time after
July 26, so if you want to get it out of the way early you can do so, or
you can wait until term. Either way you have to take the test by 11:59pm
(local time) on Friday September 27, 2024.

There are 2 additional practice exams – these are timed but you can take
them an unlimited number of times. Your score will be recorded but won’t
count toward the grade so this is where you can make your mistakes.
Practice \#1 is a bit easier; Practice \#2 is tougher than the actual
diagnostic test.

You have only one chance to take the diagnostic test before the deadline
so find a time when you have 120 minutes clear to complete it.

If you want more practice, note that each chapter has an option to do
practice problems and certifications – take advantage of these! There is
a strong positive correlation between time spent practicing and final
score.

To begin go to <https://learn.hawkeslearning.com> – all of the
directions are there.

### Using R

Once you’re learning basic stats, the other way to get started on class
work is to either use your own computer or the ones in campus computer
lab or the cloud version. If you have your own computer, download and
install (free!) the statistical analysis [program
R](http://www.r-project.org/) along with
[R-Studio](http://www.rstudio.com/). The campus computer labs have those
programs installed. If you haven’t got a computer of your own, you can
use the cloud version of R Studio as long as you have some internet
device, [R-Studio Cloud](https://rstudio.cloud/). .

My directions about using R are available from the class web page, “R
Basics for Lecture 1” although note this is not for the cloud version,
that has a slightly different interface.

You do not need a home computer of your own for the class but you’d need
to come to campus to access computer labs.

You should create a GitHub account. GitHub is industry standard for
sharing code among teams. You will submit homework by sending a link to
your GitHub project. The whole set of pages, [Happy Git with R by Jenny
Bryan](https://happygitwithr.com/), is terrific although you might not
integrate GitHub with R Studio in quite the same way especially if you
use R Studio Cloud.
